Standard configuration (#1259)
ethereum-optimism/docs: pages/superchain/standard-configuration.mdx

*   **Automated validations:**
    The tool performs checks during the deployment process to flag any deviations from standard configurations, such as unsupported modules or governance misalignments.

*   **Ease of customization within standards:**
    While ensuring compliance, OP-Deployer allows for minor, non-breaking customizations to suit specific use cases.

By using OP-Deployer, developers can reduce the complexity of chain deployment while ensuring alignment with Superchain standards.

<Callout type="info">
  The Rollup configuration is an active work in progress and will likely evolve
  significantly as time goes on. If something isn't working about your
  configuration, you can refer to the [source code](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/blob/develop/op-chain-ops/genesis/config.go).
</Callout>

## Why standardization matters

Standardization benefits the Superchain ecosystem in several ways:

*   **Interoperability:**
    Enables seamless interactions between chains, such as cross-chain messaging and token transfers.

> *   **Simplified Development:**
>     Reduces the learning curve for developers by providing consistent and predictable configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   **Simplified upgrade path:**
    Reduces the complexity of upgrading your chain to the latest version.
```

> *   **Ecosystem Growth:**
>     Encourages a thriving ecosystem by lowering barriers to entry and fostering collaboration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

*   **Reduced Support Overhead:**
    Minimizes the need for custom support by ensuring uniformity across deployments.

>     **Native ETH as gas token:**
>     All transactions on the network must use ETH for gas payments, maintaining consistency with Ethereum's native token model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Standard features

> *   **Default system contracts:**
>     Core protocol contracts must use unmodified implementations provided by the OP Stack to guarantee security and compatibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   **Default system contracts:**
    Core protocol contracts must use governance approved release implementations of the OP Stack to provide security and compatibility.
```

> *   **Standard bridge implementations:**
>     Cross-chain communication must use official bridge contracts to ensure secure and standardized asset transfers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

*   **Specified sequencer configurations:**
    Sequencer settings must follow prescribed parameters for transaction ordering and submission to maintain network stability.

## What is Not Standard?

Certain configurations are explicitly not part of the standard setup. For example:

*   **Custom Gas Tokens:**
    Introducing a gas token other than the default is currently not considered standard.

> *   **Non-Conforming Modules:**
>     Using modules not officially supported by the OP Stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

*   **Modified system contracts:**
    Any alterations to core system contracts break standardization and aren't supported in the official OP Stack specification.

For a detailed list of standard configurations, refer to the [Standard rollup configuration page](/superchain/blockspace-charter).

## Superchain Registry

The [Superchain Registry](/superchain/superchain-registry) is the authoritative index of all chains within the Superchain ecosystem. It ensures:

*   **Transparency:**
    All registered chains are publicly listed with their configurations.

> *   **Compliance verification:**
>     Chains listed in the registry are verified for adherence to the standard configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   **Superchain levels:**
    Chains listed in the registry are denoted with a [`superchain_level`](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/superchain-registry/blob/main/docs/glossary.md#superchain-level-and-rollup-stage) which tells you which chains are standard.
```

*   **Community trust:**

>     Being part of the registry signals reliability and alignment with Superchain principles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Being part of the registry signals reliability and alignment with Optimism Collective principles.
```

## Next Steps

1.  **Understand standards:**
    Familiarize yourself with the [OP Stack specifications](https://specs.optimism.io/protocol/configurability.html) and the Blockspace Charter.

> 2.  **Use OP-Deployer:**
>     Leverage OP-Deployer to ensure your chain aligns with standard configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  **Use op-deployer:**
    Leverage op-deployer to ensure your chain aligns with standard configurations.
```

3.  **Seek guidance:**
    Consult the [developer support](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/developers/discussions) team for clarifications on standardization.

4.  **Contribute to the ecosystem:**

>     Engage with the Superchain community to share feedback and propose improvements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Engage with the [Optimism Collective](https://community.optimism.io/) to share feedback and propose improvements.
```
